# journey-to-universe
NASA Space Apps Challenge> Journey To Mars


Our project is about journey to mars. Now a day’s journey to mars become more exciting facts for scientists and astronauts. Mars formation and evolution are comparable to Earth, It had conditions suitable for life in its past. Here is a question does life exist in Mars? Well, our robot can solve the answer of this question. Scientists found the first life cell (amoeba) from water. Our realization is if we get water we can able to find life. That’s why our goal is to find water and oxygen in mars that can help to find life. Our robot is capable of detect water and oxygen. It can survey and find the water. Life can’t live without oxygen. This robot can also detect oxygen. It can make fire with proper protection. In this way it can ensure us about the existence of oxygen and life. To make the fire we must have enough oxygen. Using this concept this robot can ensure about the oxygen. We are using ardunio microcontroller, Bluetooth to control the car within short distance, motor drive to control the robot, alarm microphone, three water directly detector to detect water. We will use IP camera to observe the whole things.  This robot can work in 50 degree Celsius temperature.   The merit of our robot is that it can find the liquid very fast and can be used to find water and oxygen from the whole universe. For these reasons, we named the robot ‘Journey To Universe’.

We think this robot is most innovative because we can use this not only journey to mars but also universe. We can send our robot anywhere in the universe where we want for an existence of life. We can send this remote area for searching water.

Robots might be used in many different ways. Here we used the term Space robotics, here is the development of general purpose of our machines that are capable of surviving (for a time, at least) the rigors of the space environment, and performing exploration, assembly, construction, maintenance, servicing or other tasks that may or may not have been fully understood at the time of the design of the robot. Our main aim to sort out the existence of water and oxygen in the mars. Here we are using some normal component and concept. And our robot will be operated manually (remote control basically) Whereas NASA is building large range controlling robot or automotive robot. But we have found that we might be the first who are trying to work with water and oxygen detector simultaneously.

In the journey to Mars, NASA that can detect rocks, types of soil etc. If NASA add our concept with their project, they may search life, water, oxygen at a time.

This is just a new concept of directly find the water and oxygen. Though the controlling concept is old, this can update easily and adjust with the new technology.
